Day-1

Overview:

Frontend Developer(HTML, CSS, Bootstrap)
Django & SQL
JS & React 
Real time Projects

Programming- Is the process of giving clear instruction to a computer to perform specific task.

Python- Is a high-level Interpreted language and general purpose Programming language, It is known for its simple syntax and readability.

Syntax- Refers to the set of rules that define how python code must be written 
1. Indentation- Is the proper spacing of which is used at begining of line to define blocks of code in python
Note: Python is Case Sensitive

Day-2

Variables- Is a container which is used to store a value.

Rules of declaring a Variable:
1. Variable names should start from letters or underscore.
2. It cannot start with a number.
3. It should not contain space.
4. Special characters are not allowed except underscore.

Python is known as dynamically type: Because we dont declare the data type explicitly.



Day-3

TYPE CONVERSION: Changning one data type to another data type  
2 types-
1.Implicit (Upcasting): Python automatically converts smallerdata types into bigger data types
  Mainly works with Int, Boolean, float & Complex data types it doesnot works with string as mathematically in that case we go with explicit conversion. 
2. Explicit (Type Casting): The data types are converted manually
  
When 10/2 is performed - 5.0 is obtained as float

Day-4

1. For Loops:
Syntax: 
For Variable in sequence/range: 
                Statements

We use for Loops when we know how many times we want to repeat a perticular iteration also when we are working with sequences like range string list etc we go for for-loop it is mostly used for count control repetition

2. While Loop:
Syntax:
while condition:
      Statements

we use while loopwhen we dont knowhow many times the loop should run it always depend on condition it continues until condition becomes false it is mostly used for condition control repetition. 

Day-5

Functions: 1.Built-in-Are predefined functions(print,max,min,avg,sum)
           2.User-defined-The functions which we define(with input, without input, no output, no input). Syntax: def function():
                                                                                                                  #code
                                                                                                                  
Day-6

Exception handling: It is used to handle run time errors so the program doesnt crash suddenly.
When to use Exception handling: by taking user inputs, While reading files/different datasets, while doing calculations, then the API calls.  
1. Try- Code that may cause errors that goes inside the try block.
2. Except- USed to handle the error caused by try block.
3. Finally- USed to printing the final Statement after execution saying that Execution Completed.

Day-7

List[]: A list is a collection of items which is stored in squared brackets, it is orederd, mutable and also it allows duplicate values.
Syntax: List_Name = [valuse1, value2, ... ]

Tuple(): Is a collection is of items which is used to stored elements in simple brackets it is oredered, immutable and also it allows duplicate values.
Syntax: Tuple_Name=(valuse1, value2, ...)

Set{}: A set is a collection stored in curly braces, it is unordered, it doesnot allow duplicate values and also it is changable.
Syntax: Set_Name = {value1, value2, ...}

Dictionary{}: A Dictionary stored a data in (key,value) pairs using curly braces it is ordered changable but it doesnot allow duplicate keys as it is unique.
Syntax: dict_name= {
                      key1:"value1",
                      key2:"value2
                    }

Day-8

Class: A class is a structure where we define what an object should contain, it defines what data it has and also which actions it can perform it is a user defined datatype that groups data and functions together.
Syntax: class class_name:
            def function/method(parameter):
                //statements

Constructors: 

Day-12

Modules: Are files containg python code that can define functions, classes,variables etc. We need modules to organize our code and avoid repetation.
Types of module: 1. Built-in:  Modules are modules that are already provided by python, We dont create them they come preinstalled with python.(eg: import math)
                 2. User-defined: are modules created by the programmer, any .py file created by the programmer becomes a custom module.    

File Handling: It allows us to save data permamanently in the system. File handling means storing data in the file and reading data from the file.
Syntax:
        open("filename","mode")
        where: mode- tells python what to with this file.
               r- read.
               w- write/overwrite.
               a- append.
               x- create a new file.
              
Day-13

SQL(Structured Query Language): A Database is an organized collection of data 
Database stores data in form of tables, were rows are called as records and colunms are called as fields.
1. Primary Key- A primary key is unique, cant be duplicate,and also cant be empty.
2. Foriegn Key- To build relationship between two tables we make use of foriegn key.

Syntax: creat database database_name;

Relationships in database:
1. One-one: 
2. One-many:
3. many-many:


Day-14

Agregate Functions: 
1. sum()
2. avg()
3. max()
4. min()
5. count()

Group By: Is used to group rows that have same values in a column. It is usually used with aggregate functions.
Having Clause: Filters grouped data.

DDL(Data Definition Language): Deals with schema or structure. -> Create,Drop,Alter,Truncate.
DML(Data Manipulation Language): Deals with the data inside the table. -> Insert,Update,Delete.